+++
title = " "
#active = true
##date = 2017-10-15T00:00:00

date = 2018-10-02T00:00:00
# lastmod = 2018-09-09T00:00:00

draft = false  # Is this a draft? true/false
toc = true  # Show table of contents? true/false
type = "docs"  # Do not modify.

# Add menu entry to sidebar.
# linktitle = "Example Page"
[menu.Seminars]
  parent = "5. Presentations"
  name = " a). @ The ECTQG 2013"
  weight = 1
 
#[]("/tutorial/tutor_eg_021018_files/featured.jpg"")

+++

## **a). Event:**

**18th ECTQG, DOURDAN, FRANCE**

## **Presentation title:**

**"Implications of the prospective crime surveillance - A case study of burglary crime of Camden (London)"**

## **Abstract:**

In recent years, the detection of 'emerging' patterns of geographical point process has gained significant research interest owing to its application in a wide range of operational environments. Amongst the existing surveillance techniques, the Space-time scan statistics (STSS) have shown a great potential for identifying prospective clusters, which are interpreted as signaling emergence of anomalous patterns. In this study, we apply the STSS to the 2011 burglary dataset of Camden area of London, in an effort to detect episodes of crime problems during the year. The results revealed that the STSS has the capability to provide the necessary warnings required to prevent the progression of anomalous crime patterns in a real-life operational environment. In the era of police budge cut, this result is significant as it can help to improve strategic allocation of limited police resources.

## **Speaker:**
Monsuru Adepeju







