+++
title = " "
#active = true
##date = 2017-10-15T00:00:00

date = 2018-10-02T00:00:00
# lastmod = 2018-09-09T00:00:00

draft = false  # Is this a draft? true/false
toc = true  # Show table of contents? true/false
type = "docs"  # Do not modify.

# Add menu entry to sidebar.
# linktitle = "Example Page"
[menu.Seminars]
  parent = "5. Presentations"
  name = "d). @ The AAG 2015"
  weight = 1
 
#[]("/tutorial/tutor_eg_021018_files/featured.jpg"")

+++

## **d). Event:**

**ANNUAL MEETING OF AAG, CHICAGO, IL, USA**

## **Presentation title:**

**"Detection of Emerging Hot-Routes of Crime for Proactive Policing using Prospective Space-Time Scan Statistics (PSTSS)"**

## **Abstract:**

Studies of crime hotspots along route networks have focussed mainly on historical patterns in which networks of routes (i.e. streets and/or foot-paths) with elevated level of crimes are detected and identified as "hot routes". These "hot-routes" are used by the police to inform long-term police interventions. For proactive (day-to-day) interventions, police needs to know which routes are prone to victimisation in the very near future. This requires the detection of hot-routes that are rapidly emerging on a daily basis. In our study, we applied a geographical hotspot detection method called Prospective Space-Time Scan Statistics (PSTSS) to identify hot-routes that are emerging on a daily basis. The PSTSS method detects emerging hot-routes by scanning the entire route network using network-based scanning windows (sub-networks) of varying sizes. It identifies sub-networks that contain abnormally high (statistically significant) crime concentration. The crime dataset provided by London Metropolitan police has been used to test the effectiveness of PSTSS. PSTSS stands as an improvement over its retrospective counterpart that is designed for identifying historical hot-routes used for long-term police interventions.

## **Speaker:**
Monsuru Adepeju



