+++
title = " "
#active = true
##date = 2017-10-15T00:00:00

date = 2018-10-02T00:00:00
# lastmod = 2018-09-09T00:00:00

draft = false  # Is this a draft? true/false
toc = true  # Show table of contents? true/false
type = "docs"  # Do not modify.

# Add menu entry to sidebar.
# linktitle = "Example Page"
[menu.Seminars]
  parent = "5. Presentations"
  name = "g). @ The ESC 2018"
  weight = 1
 
#[]("/tutorial/tutor_eg_021018_files/featured.jpg"")

+++

## **g). Event:**

**19TH ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF ESC, SARAJEVO, BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA**

## **Presentation title:**

**"A longitudinal study of offender residential concentration in the UK"**

## **Abstract:**

Despite having common roots in crime concentration research, little attention has been paid to the geographic distribution of offender residences. Questions remain unanswered about how stable offender residential concentrations are over time, or how sensitive this stability is to the choice of spatial scale. Given that many offenders commit crime close to where they reside, an important piece of the puzzle may be missing in our efforts to understand the longitudinal concentration of crime. This paper addresses these shortcomings using 10 years of geocoded offender residence data from Birmingham, England. Descriptive and multilevel analyses are used to establish the most appropriate unit of analysis. Non-parametric longitudinal clustering methods are then deployed to disentangle local variance in concentrations. Individual-level population flows are visualised to demonstrate how even small-area analysis can hide more complex underlying processes.

## **Speaker:**

Samuel Langton



